# Alteromonas metabolite uptake
Code and data for the analysis of experiments testing the relationship between _Alteromonas macleodii_ MIT1002 and select _Prochlorococcus_ metabolites. 

Two types of experiments were used for this project: 
  1. A set of growth experiments, where _Alteromonas_ was grown in 96-well plates with either pyruvate, a _Prochlorococcus_ derived metabolite, or a mix of pyruvate and _Prochlorococcus_ metabolite. In these experiments growth was measured as OD600, measured every 30 minutes for 48 hours using a plate reader. 
  2. Uptake experiments, where _Alteromonas_ was grown with a select _Prochlorococcus_ metabolite. In these experiments, we measured both _Alteromonas_ growth (by flow cytometry) and the change in metabolite concentration (by solid-phase extraction and liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry). 

This repository contains the code used for the analysis of these experiments, as well as the data called by that code. Although each "growth experiment" script is quite similar, growth data were examined manually to check for edge effects - i.e., cultures which were clearly impacted by their position on the 96-well plate. The code for each experiment is therefore left separate, to preserve the notes and results of this manual examination. 

Along the same lines, scripts used to analyze the uptake experiments are very similar. However, the experiment using 3-methyl-2-oxobutanoic acid included an isotopically labeled internal standard (i.e., D5-3-methyl-2-oxobutanoic acid) which could be used for normalization, while the 3-methyl-2-oxopentanoic acid experiment did not incude an analagous standard. For both experiments, quantification without normalization was performed using the MATLAB scripts considerMAVEN and riMAVEN. For the 3-methyl-2-oxobutanoic acid experiment, quantification with normalization was performed in R, as was comparison between normalized and unnormalized data. For both experiments, subsequent analysis and visualization was completed in R. 
